<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
  <topic id="topic_ywl_frt_r4">
    <title>RTPS configuration parameters</title>
    <body>
      <p>The RTPS layer of DDS can be configured indirectly via a number of configuration
        parameters.</p>
      <note>Although the DDS RTPS specification combines both RTPS and RTPS transport mechanisms
        (UDP/IP), the configuration parameters for the transport layers are defined within the IP,
        UDP and TCP groups.</note>
      <p>Following parameters are defined:</p>
      <p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_cfr_lrt_r4">
          <title>RTPS parameters</title>
          <tgroup cols="4">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="2.34*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="4.14*"/>
            <colspec colname="newCol3" colnum="3" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colnum="4" colwidth="1.14*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Parameter name</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
                <entry>Type</entry>
                <entry>Default</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>RTPS_MODE</entry>
                <entry>Mode of operation.</entry>
                <entry>Mode</entry>
                <entry>Enabled</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>RTPS_SL_RETRIES</entry>
                <entry>Number of stateless fast (200ms) retransmissions of SPDP messages. Used both
                  when a participant starts up for the first time and when it sees another
                  participant for the first time, in order to minimize the chance of packet loss
                  that would necessitate having to wait for RTPS_RESEND_TIME before a new attempt to
                  communicate is done.</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry>2</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>RTPS_RESEND_TIME</entry>
                <entry>Normal delay between successive SPDP messages (in seconds).</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry>10s</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>RTPS_HB_TIME</entry>
                <entry>Heartbeat retransmission time (ms).</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry>100ms</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>RTPS_NACK_RESP_TIME</entry>
                <entry>Nack response time (ms). The delay before Data/Gaps are sent upon receiving
                  an AckNack requesting data.</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry>0</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>RTPS_NACK_SUPP_TIME</entry>
                <entry>Nack suppression time (ms). The delay within AcnNack messages are silently
                  discarded by a Writer.</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry>0</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>RTPS_LEASE_TIME</entry>
                <entry>Default lease time before remote participants are forgotten.</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry>30s</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>RTPS_HB_RESP_TIME</entry>
                <entry>Heartbeat response time (ms). The delay before an AckNack is set in response
                  to a received Heartbeat message.</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry>0</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>RTPS_HB_SUPP_TIME</entry>
                <entry>Heartbeat suppression time (ms). The delay within Heartbeat messages are
                  silently discarded by a Reader when received too fast after a previous
                    Heartbeat<fn>This parameter is currently not yet implemented in Technicolor
                    DDS</fn>.</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry>0</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>RTPS_MSG_SIZE</entry>
                <entry>The maximum RTPS message length that determines whether RTPS submessages will
                  be appended to a message.</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry>1452</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>RTPS_FRAG_SIZE</entry>
                <entry>The default Fragment size for fragmented messages.</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry>8192</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>RTPS_FRAG_BURST</entry>
                <entry>The maximum number of fragments that can be sent in a single burst.</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry>512</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>RTPS_FRAG_DELAY</entry>
                <entry>The delay between bursts of fragments.</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry>0</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>RTPS_DTRACE</entry>
                <entry>Default tracing mode of new created endpoints.</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry>0</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p>
      <note>The RTPS_HB_TIME has a randomized exponential backoff mechanism behind it in order not
        to flood the network in case of unresponsive readers. This means that subsequent
        retransmission times can double up to 256 times the initial value (which is 25.6 seconds
        with the default settings).</note>
      <p>Examples:</p>
      <p><b>export TDDS_RTPS_FRAG_SIZE=1024</b></p>
      <p>Sets the default fragment size to 1024 bytes.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
</dita>
