<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_zgx_25t_5f">
 <title>Library build options</title>
 <shortdesc></shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The application and test programs described before each have a Makefile in their own directory
   and can be build as standalone programs.</p>
  <p>The DDS library (i.e. <i>libdds.so.1</i>) should be build using the Makefile_component makefile
   in the dds root directory:</p>
  <p>A large number of build options are available directly from the build system. These take the
   form of <b>dds_</b><i>&lt;option></i><b>=1</b>:<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1"
    id="table_pb2_svb_v4">
    <title>DDS Library build options</title>
    <tgroup cols="2">
     <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
     <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="3.65*"/>
     <thead>
      <row>
       <entry>DDS build option</entry>
       <entry>Description</entry>
      </row>
     </thead>
     <tbody>
      <row>
       <entry><cmdname>dds_DEBUG=1</cmdname></entry>
       <entry>This option automatically enables the debug shell using a builtin debug server that
        listens to port 3400 + <i>&lt;participant_id></i> for incoming Telnet connections.  This is
        the default for debug builds but is normally disabled for release builds.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><cmdname>dds_WERROR=1</cmdname></entry>
       <entry>Compile everything with<cmdname> -werror</cmdname>.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><cmdname>dds_SECURITY=1</cmdname></entry>
       <entry>Enable DDS security software to be compiled in.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><cmdname>dds_FORCE_MALLOC=1</cmdname></entry>
       <entry>If not specified, the DDS library will use a builtin pool system (as described
        before), but it can be forced to automatically call malloc/free functions on pool
        allocations/releases for valgrind verification purposes.  Using this option forces the use
        of malloc/free.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><cmdname>dds_LOG_FILE=1</cmdname></entry>
       <entry>The DDS log file will by default not be used in non-debug mode.  Set this to keep
        using the DDS log file system.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><cmdname>dds_QEO_SECURITY=1</cmdname></entry>
       <entry>Enable the Qeo security plugin instead of the standard DDS security plugin.</entry>
      </row>
     </tbody>
    </tgroup>
   </table></p>
  <note>On Android and iOS devices, the &lt;participant_id> number will always be 0, so port 3400
   can always be used.  On native systems (Linux, OSX, etc.) the &lt;participant_id> will differ
   when multiple processes are using DDS.  A command like <cmdname>ss -tnap</cmdname> might indicate
   the correct debug port.</note>
 </conbody>
</concept>
