<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ln5_pfs_wf">
 <title>Command Overview</title>
 <shortdesc></shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The Debug shell, once activated will show a prompt and will wait for debug commands.</p>
  <p>For example, when remotely connected over telnet, the following will be displayed:</p>
  <screen scale="80">Welcome to the TDDS Debug shell.
Type 'help' for more information on available commands.
></screen>
  <p>Typing the 'help' command will show the list of all the DDS Debug commands that might be
   supported in an active shell:</p>
  <screen scale="80">TDDS Debug shell -- (c) Technicolor, 2012
Following commands are available:
    ssys                  Display system-specific data.
    stimer                Display the timers.
    sstr                  Display the string cache.
    spool                 Display the pools.
    spoola                Display the pools (extended).
    scx [&lt;cx>]            Display connections.
    scxa [&lt;cx>]           Display connections (extended).
    scxq                  Display queued connections.
    sloc                  Display locators.
    sconfig               Display configuration data.
    sdomain &lt;d> &lt;lf> &lt;rf> Display domain (d) info.
                          &lt;lf> and &lt;rf> are bitmaps for local/remote info.
                          1=Locator, 2=Builtin, 4=Endp, 8=Type, 10=Topic.
    sdisc                 Display discovery info.
    sdisca                Display all discovery info (sdisc + endpoints)
    stypes [&lt;name>]       Display Type information.
    sqos                  Display QoS parameters.
    stopic &lt;d> [&lt;name>]   Display Topic information.
    sendpoints            Display the DCPS/RTPS Readers/Writers.
    scache &lt;ep>           Display an RTPS Endpoint Cache.
    sdcache &lt;ep>          Display a DCPS Endpoint Cache.
    qcache &lt;ep> &lt;query>   Query cache data of the specified endpoint:
                          where: &lt;ep>: endpoint, &lt;query>: SQL Query string.
    sproxy &lt;ep>           Display the Proxy contexts of an entry.
    rproxy [&lt;ep>]         Restart Proxy context.
    seqos &lt;ep>            Display endpoint QoS parameters.
    scrypto &lt;ep>          Display entity crypto parameters.
    sscache               Display security cache.
    rehs                  Request a rehandshake.
    srx                   Display the RTPS Receiver context.
    stx                   Display the RTPS Transmitter context.
    sfd                   Display the status of the file descriptors.
    pause                 Pause traffic.
    resume [&lt;n>]          Resume traffic [for &lt;n> samples].
    delay &lt;n>             Set sleep time in ms.
    asp &lt;d>               Assert participant.
    ase &lt;ep>              Assert writer endpoint.
    sdip                  Display the dynamic IP state.
    dtls                  Display DTLS connection related info.
    spdb                  Display the policy database.
    spv                   Display the policy version numbers.
    sfwd                  Display the forwarder state.
    ftrace &lt;n>            Start forwarder tracing for &lt;n> events.
    dtrace [&lt;t>]          Set/toggle default DDS tracing (t=0 or 1..15).
    trace [&lt;ep> [&lt;t>]]    Set/toggle tracing on endpoints.
	                      &lt;t>: 1=Frame, 2=Signal, 4=State, 8=Timer.
    ditrace [&lt;t>]         Set/toggle default IP tracing (0 or 1).
    itrace [&lt;h> [&lt;t>]]    Set/toggle tracing on IP connections (t:0/1).
    cton                  Enable the cyclic trace buffer.
    ctoff                 Disable the cyclic trace buffer.
    ctclr                 Clear the cyclic trace buffer.
    ctmode &lt;m>            Set tracing mode ('C'=cyclic/'S'=stop).
    ctinfo                Display the state of the cyclic trace buffer.
    ctaadd &lt;pos> &lt;name> &lt;dlen> [&lt;data>] &lt;action> {&lt;action>}
	                      Add an action list to a tracepoint.
    ctaclr                Clear all action lists.
    ctalist               Display all actions lists.
    ctainfo [&lt;id>]        Display all id or all id:index values.
    ctcounters            Display all counters.
    ctcclr                Clear all counters.
    ctdump                Dump the cyclic trace buffer.
    ctsave &lt;filename>     Save cyclic trace data to file.
    profs                 Display profile results.
    cprofs &lt;delay> &lt;dur>  Clear and restart profiling.
    slstat                Display the status of all the locks.
    d [&lt;p> [&lt;n>]]         Dump memory.
    da [&lt;p> [&lt;n>]]        Dump memory in ASCII.
    db [&lt;p> [&lt;n>]]        Dump memory in hex bytes.
    ds [&lt;p> [&lt;n>]]        Dump memory in hex 16-bit values.
    dl [&lt;p> [&lt;n>]]        Dump memory in hex 32-bit values.
    dm [&lt;p> [&lt;n>]]        Dump memory in mixed hex/ASCII.
    indent &lt;tab> &lt;n>      Set indent type (if &lt;tab>=1: use TABs).
    taflags &lt;flags>       Set type attribute display flags.
	                      &lt;flags>: 1=header, 2=size, 4=elsize, 8=ofs.
    server [&lt;port>]       Start debug server.
    env                   Display configuration data (same as sconf).
    set &lt;var> &lt;value>     Set the configuration variable to given value.
    unset &lt;var>           Unset the configuration variable.
    suspend &lt;value>       Suspend with given mode.
    activate &lt;value>      Activate with given mode.
    help                  Display general help.
    quit                  Quit main DDS program.
    exit                  Close remote connection.
></screen>
  <note>This list includes all the commands that might be present in a DDS Debug enabled program.
   However, a lot of these commands depend on various compile options so only a subset of these is
  usually present.  Only the commands that are available will be displayed when the help command
  is given.</note>
  <p>Not all command characters need to be typed.  Following table shows
   which command characters are significant and how to use them:</p>
  <p>
   <table frame="all" id="table_bh3_svh_vf">
    <title>Debug shell commands.</title>
    <tgroup cols="3">
     <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
     <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.28*"/>
     <colspec colname="newCol3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.1*"/>
     <thead>
      <row>
       <entry>Command</entry>
       <entry>Description</entry>
       <entry>Compile option</entry>
      </row>
     </thead>
     <tbody>
      <row>
       <entry><u>#</u></entry>
       <entry>Lines starting with '#' or empty lines are seen as comments and are simply
        ignored.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>ssy</u>s</entry>
       <entry>Display system-specific data.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>sti</u>mer</entry>
       <entry>Displays all active timers in the Technicolor DDS middleware.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>sst</u>r</entry>
       <entry>Displays the string cache.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>(<u>spo</u>ol | <u>spoola</u>)</entry>
       <entry>Display memory pool usage.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>(<u>scx</u> | <u>scxa</u> | <u>scxq</u>) [<i>&lt;cx></i>]</entry>
       <entry>Display sockets that are in use.</entry>
       <entry>RTPS_USED</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>slo</u>c</entry>
       <entry>Display the locators cache.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>sdo</u>main <i>&lt;d> &lt;lf> &lt;rf></i></entry>
       <entry>Display all domain data corresponding to the domain id and the local/remote
        flags.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>(<u>sdis</u>c | <u>sdisca</u>)</entry>
       <entry>Display the local and discovered entities.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>sty</u>pes [<i>&lt;name></i><cmdname>]</cmdname></entry>
       <entry>Display registered types.</entry>
       <entry>XTYPES_USED</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>sq</u>os</entry>
       <entry>Display the QoS cache.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>sto</u>pic <i>&lt;d></i> [<i>&lt;name></i>]</entry>
       <entry>Display one or all Topics within the given domain.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>(<u>sen</u>dpoints | <u>sep</u>)</entry>
       <entry>Display the Reader and Writer endpoints of all domains, local as well as
        discovered.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>(<u>sca</u>che | <u>sdc</u>ache) &lt;ep></entry>
       <entry>Display a local Reader or Writer cache.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>qc</u>ache <i>&lt;ep></i> [<i>&lt;query></i>]</entry>
       <entry>Display local Reader or Writer cache data based on the given SQL-query
        expression.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>spr</u>oxy <i>&lt;ep></i></entry>
       <entry>Display the proxy Readers or proxy Writers corresponding with a local Writer or
        Reader.</entry>
       <entry>RTPS_USED</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>rpr</u>oxy <i>&lt;ep></i></entry>
       <entry>Restart a proxy reader or writer for test purposes.</entry>
       <entry>RTPS_USED</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>seq</u>os <i>&lt;ep></i></entry>
       <entry>Display the QoS parameters of any created entity.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>scr</u>ypto <i>&lt;ep></i></entry>
       <entry>Display entity crypto parameters.</entry>
       <entry>DDS_NATIVE_SECURITY</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>ssc</u>ache</entry>
       <entry>Display security cache.</entry>
       <entry>DDS_NATIVE_SECURITY</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>reh</u>s</entry>
       <entry>Request a rehandshake for test purposes.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>srx</u></entry>
       <entry>Display the RTPS receive message context.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>stx</u></entry>
       <entry>Display the RTPS transmitter context.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>sfd</u></entry>
       <entry>Display the status of the file descriptors.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>p</u>ause</entry>
       <entry>Pause sending/receiving data.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>r</u>esume [<i>&lt;n></i>]</entry>
       <entry>Resume sending/receiving data for the given number of samples, or continously if not
        specified.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>de</u>lay <i>&lt;n></i></entry>
       <entry>Sleep time between successive generated data samples (in milliseconds).</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>asp</u>
        <i>&lt;d></i></entry>
       <entry>Assert manual Participant Liveliness for the specified domain.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>ase</u>
        <i>&lt;ep></i></entry>
       <entry>Assert Topic Liveliness for the specified endpoint.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>sdip</u></entry>
       <entry>Display the dynamic IP address handler state.</entry>
       <entry>DDS_DYN_IP</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>dtls</u></entry>
       <entry>Display DTLS connection related info.</entry>
       <entry>DDS_SECURITY</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>spdb</u></entry>
       <entry>Display the policy database.</entry>
       <entry>DDS_NATIVE_SECURITY</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>spv</u></entry>
       <entry>Display the policy version numbers.</entry>
       <entry>DDS_QEO_TYPES</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>sf</u>wd</entry>
       <entry>Display the forwarder state.</entry>
       <entry>DDS_FORWARD</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>ft</u>race <i>&lt;n></i></entry>
       <entry>Start forwarder tracing for &lt;n> events.</entry>
       <entry>DDS_FORWARD</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>dt</u>race [<i>&lt;mode></i>]</entry>
       <entry>Set the default tracing mode (default = no tracing) the the specified mode, or toggle
        the default tracing mode (none &lt;-> all).</entry>
       <entry>DDS_TRACE</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>tr</u>ace [<i>&lt;ep></i> [<i>&lt;mode></i>]]</entry>
       <entry>Set the tracing mode of an endpoint (default = no tracing) to the specified mode, or
        toggle the tracing mode of an endpoint (only &lt;ep> specified) or toggle the tracing mode
        of all endpoints (if no arguments).</entry>
       <entry>DDS_TRACE</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>dit</u>race [<i>&lt;t></i>]</entry>
       <entry>Set/toggle default tracing of new IP connections.</entry>
       <entry>MSG_TRACE</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>it</u>race [<i>&lt;h></i> [<i>&lt;t></i>]]</entry>
       <entry>Set/toggle tracing on existing IP connections (t:0/1).</entry>
       <entry>MSG_TRACE</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>cton</u></entry>
       <entry>Start cyclic event tracing.</entry>
       <entry>CTRACE_USED</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>ctof</u>f</entry>
       <entry>Stop cyclic event tracing.</entry>
       <entry>CTRACE_USED</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>ctcl</u>r</entry>
       <entry>Clear the cyclic event trace buffer.</entry>
       <entry>CTRACE_USED</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>ctm</u>ode <i>&lt;ctmode></i></entry>
       <entry>Set cyclic trace mode to cyclic (&lt;ctmode> = 'c') or one-shot (&lt;ctmode> =
        's').</entry>
       <entry>CTRACE_USED</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>cti</u>nfo</entry>
       <entry>Display current cyclic trace settings and cyclic trace buffer filling level.</entry>
       <entry>CTRACE_USED</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>ctaa</u>dd <i>&lt;pos></i>
        <i>&lt;name> &lt;dlen></i> [<i>&lt;data></i>] <i>&lt;action></i>
        {<i>&lt;action></i>}</entry>
       <entry>Add an action list to a tracepoint.</entry>
       <entry>CTRACE_USED</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>ctac</u>lr</entry>
       <entry>Clear all action lists.</entry>
       <entry>CTRACE_USED</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>ctal</u>ist</entry>
       <entry>Display all actions lists.</entry>
       <entry>CTRACE_USED</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>ctai</u>nfo [<i>&lt;id></i>]</entry>
       <entry>Display all id or all id:index values.</entry>
       <entry>CTRACE_USED</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>ctco</u>unters</entry>
       <entry>Display all counters.</entry>
       <entry>CTRACE_USED</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>ctcc</u>lr</entry>
       <entry>Clear all counters.</entry>
       <entry>CTRACE_USED</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>ctd</u>ump</entry>
       <entry>Dump the contents of the cyclic event trace buffer.</entry>
       <entry>CTRACE_USED</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>cts</u>ave <i>&lt;filename></i></entry>
       <entry>Save the contents of the cyclic event trace buffer in a file.</entry>
       <entry>CTRACE_USED</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>pro</u>fs</entry>
       <entry>Display profiling statistics information.</entry>
       <entry>PROFILE</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>cpro</u>f</entry>
       <entry>Clear profiling statistics.</entry>
       <entry>PROFILE</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>sls</u>tat</entry>
       <entry>Display the status of the DDS locks.</entry>
       <entry>LOCK_TRACE</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>(<u>d</u> | <u>da</u> | <u>db</u> | <u>ds</u> | <u>dl</u> | <u>dm</u>) [<i>&lt;p></i>
         [<i>&lt;n></i>]]</entry>
       <entry>Dump memory commands to dump data in ASCII, hex (8/16/32 bits) or mixed
        hexadecimal/ASCII formats.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>ind</u>ent <i>&lt;tab> &lt;n></i></entry>
       <entry>Set indent type (if &lt;tab>=1: use TABs).</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>taf</u>lags <i>&lt;flags></i></entry>
       <entry>Set type attribute display flags.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>serv</u>er</entry>
       <entry>Start a DDS Debug server for remote access.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>menu</u></entry>
       <entry>Start the program menu screen.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>(<u>sco</u>nfig | <u>env</u>)</entry>
       <entry>Display configuration data.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>set</u>
        <i>&lt;var> &lt;value></i></entry>
       <entry>Set the configuration variable to given value.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>unset</u>
        <i>&lt;var></i></entry>
       <entry>Unset the configuration variable.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>su</u>spend <i>&lt;value></i></entry>
       <entry>Suspend with given mode.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>ac</u>tivate <i>&lt;value></i></entry>
       <entry>Activate with given mode.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>(<u>h</u>elp | <u>H</u> | <u>?</u>)</entry>
       <entry>Display the debug commands.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>q</u>uit</entry>
       <entry>Quit either the DDS Debug shell or the main program depending on the current
        context.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><u>exit</u></entry>
       <entry>Exit from a remote debug shell connection.</entry>
       <entry/>
      </row>
     </tbody>
    </tgroup>
   </table>
  </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
