<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
  <topic id="topic_enc_c3t_r4">
    <title>Global configuration parameters</title>
    <body>
      <p>A number of global DDS parameters can be configured:</p>
      <p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_nc3_r3t_r4">
          <title>Global parameters</title>
          <tgroup cols="3">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="4.13*"/>
            <colspec colname="newCol3" colnum="3" colwidth="1*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Parameter name</entry>
                <entry id="entry_srb_t3t_r4">Description</entry>
                <entry>Type</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>NAME</entry>
                <entry>Specifies the DDS name that will be used during discovery.</entry>
                <entry>String</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>ENVIRONMENT</entry>
                <entry>Identifies the DDS environment type. By default this is supposed to be the
                  'C'-environment, but can be changed for other programming languages. DDS will try
                  to optimize data transfers between participants with the same environment and
                  endianness, and will try to avoid marshalling in that case.  See the environment
                  definitions in <i>dds/dds_aux.h</i> for the numbers to use.</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>PURGE_DELAY</entry>
                <entry>Minimum time to delay to cleanup data when handling
                    <i>*_delete_contained_entities()</i>. The default time is 50 us.</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>SAMPLE_SIZE</entry>
                <entry>Maximum size of data samples (in bytes). Default this is set to 256 Mbytes
                  per sample.</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>FORWARD</entry>
                <entry>This is only meaningful when an application is compiled with -DDDS_FORWARD,
                  to enable RTPS forwarding.  It should be set to the actual forwarding mode
                  (typically, either 0 to disable forwarding, which is the default, or 15 to enable
                  full forwarding). </entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p>
      <p>Examples:</p>
      <p><b>EXPORT TDDS_FORWARD=15</b></p>
      <p>Enables forwarding.</p>
      <p><b>EXPORT TDDS_NAME="TDDS Simple Application"</b></p>
      <p>Sets the DDS application name to "TDDS Simple Application".</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
</dita>
