<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_sjj_dtm_r4">
 <title>Configuration mechanisms</title>
 <shortdesc></shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>A number of DDS parameters are present.  Either DDS global parameters or specific group-related
   parameters can be configured.</p>
  <p>A parameter name is typically formatted in configuration files and API function arguments
   as:</p>
  <p>
   <b>[&lt;group>_]&lt;name></b></p>
  <p>Where <b>&lt;group></b> is the name of the group and <b>&lt;name></b> is the parameter
   name.</p>
  <p>When refered to a parameter as an environment variable, it gets an additional <b>TDDS_</b>
   prefix.</p>
  <p>Example:  <b>export TDDS_IP_MCAST_TTL=20</b> sets an environment variable specifying the
    <b>MCAST_TTL</b> parameter in the <b>IP</b> group.</p>
  <p>DDS configuration files can be used to automatically configure Technicolor DDS on startup and
   have the typical .ini file syntax with group names between brackets and parameters in a group
   following the group name.</p>
  <p>Example configuration file
   contents:<codeblock>MAX_SAMPLE=100000     # Max. size of data samples

[TCP]
PORT=7400             # Set TCP server port.

[IPV6]
MODE=disabled         # No IPv6</codeblock></p>
  <p>These files can be located in different places:<ul id="ul_x2t_3wm_r4">
    <li>Either the location is specified by an application with a DDS API function as one of the
     first actions on startup, before calling any other DDS
     function:<codeblock>void DDS_configuration_set (const char *filename);</codeblock></li>
    <li>or it is specified with the <b>TDDS_CONFIG=&lt;location></b> environment variable.</li>
    <li>or one of the following standard filesystem locations are searched in the following order:<sl>
      <sli>-> The current directory: <i>tdds.conf</i></sli>
      <sli>-> The user's home directory: <i>~/.tdds.conf</i></sli>
      <sli>-> The system configuration directory: <i>/etc/tdds.conf</i></sli>
     </sl></li>
  </ul></p>
  <p>Configuration parameters can also be changed dynamically by applications with the following API
   functions:<codeblock>DDS_ReturnCode_t DDS_parameter_set (
    const char *name,
    const char *value
);

DDS_ReturnCode_t DDS_parameter_unset (
    const char *name
);

const char *DDS_parameter_get (
    const char *name,
    char buffer [],
    size_t size
);</codeblock></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
