<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_wrm_413_s4">
 <title>Dump program</title>
 <shortdesc/>
 <conbody>
  <section>
   <title>Introduction</title>
   <p>The <cmdname>dump</cmdname> program is a simple example on how to monitor a DDS domain and
    display any of its discovered topics.</p>
   <p>It does this by listening to the builtin discovery readers and presenting a list of all the
    discovered topics to the user.</p>
   <p>When the user decides to monitor any of these topics, the X-types functions can be used to
    create a new type support based on the discovered topic type.  A subsequent DDS DataReader
    creation, referencing this type allows to read dynamic data samples that are published by the
    remote DDS DataWriters.</p>
   <p>Since Dynamic data samples can be introspected using the X-types functions, they can be
    properly decoded and examined.</p>
  </section>
 <section><title>In-program commands</title>
  <p>While the program is active, simple commands may be given to determine what should be
    monitored.  These commands are an extension of the DDS Debug shell and provide for dump-specific
    extensions.</p>
   <p>Following commands are available:<table frame="all" id="table_wr1_nt3_v4">
     <title>Dump program commands</title>
     <tgroup cols="2">
      <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
      <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.39*"/>
      <thead>
       <row>
        <entry>Command</entry>
        <entry>Description</entry>
       </row>
      </thead>
      <tbody>
       <row>
        <entry><cmdname>list</cmdname></entry>
        <entry>Lists all discovered domain topics.</entry>
       </row>
       <row>
        <entry><cmdname>auto</cmdname>
         <i>&lt;name_spec></i></entry>
        <entry>Automatically monitor the topics matching the &lt;name_spec> argument, even if they
         haven't been discovered yet.  Common wildcards like '*' and '?' are accepted.</entry>
       </row>
       <row>
        <entry><cmdname>monitor</cmdname>
         <i>&lt;name_spec></i></entry>
        <entry>Monitor the discovered topics matching the given argument.</entry>
       </row>
       <row>
        <entry><cmdname>ignore</cmdname>
         <i>&lt;name_spec></i></entry>
        <entry>Stop monitoring the discovered topics matching the argument.</entry>
       </row>
       <row>
        <entry><cmdname>trace</cmdname></entry>
        <entry>Toggle tracing of discovery traffic in real-time.</entry>
       </row>
      </tbody>
     </tgroup>
    </table></p></section>
  <section><title>Starting the dump program</title><p>Following program arguments can be given:<table frame="all" id="table_vrl_jv3_v4">
     <title>Dump program options</title>
     <tgroup cols="2">
      <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
      <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.39*"/>
      <thead>
       <row>
        <entry>Option</entry>
        <entry>Description</entry>
       </row>
      </thead>
      <tbody>
       <row>
        <entry><cmdname>-p</cmdname></entry>
        <entry>Startup in paused state.</entry>
       </row>
       <row>
        <entry><cmdname>-d</cmdname></entry>
        <entry>Trace discovered data.</entry>
       </row>
       <row>
        <entry><cmdname>-i</cmdname>
         <i>&lt;num></i></entry>
        <entry>Domain id to use.</entry>
       </row>
       <row>
        <entry><cmdname>-a</cmdname>
         <i>&lt;name_spec></i></entry>
        <entry>Topics to be monitored automatically.  This has the same effect as the in-program
         auto command.</entry>
       </row>
       <row>
        <entry><cmdname>-v</cmdname></entry>
        <entry>Verbose operation. Logs overall functionality.</entry>
       </row>
       <row>
        <entry><cmdname>-vv</cmdname></entry>
        <entry>Very verbose operation, logging detailed functionality.</entry>
       </row>
       <row>
        <entry><cmdname>-h</cmdname></entry>
        <entry>Show the program options.</entry>
       </row>
      </tbody>
     </tgroup>
    </table></p></section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
