<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="aabwdxa515d2" xml:lang="en-US">
 <title>IPv4 and IPv6 mode of operation parameters.</title>
 <shortdesc></shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <table frame="all" id="table_ip_mode">
   <title>IPv4 and IPv6 mode parameters</title>
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="4.2*" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
    <thead>
     <row>
      <entry>Parameter name</entry>
      <entry>Description</entry>
     </row>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
     <row>
      <entry>IP_MODE</entry>
      <entry>Specifies the default mode of operation of IPv4. By default, IPv4 operation is enabled
       and preferred over IPv6. The argument should be set to one of the valid IP modes as explained
       below.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry>IPV6_MODE</entry>
      <entry>Specifies the default mode of operation of IPv6. By default, if IPv6 is enabled at
       compile time, it is enabled, but not preferred. The argument should be set to one of the
       valid IP modes.</entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </table>
  <p>Valid arguments for IP_MODE and IPV6_MODE are:</p>
  <table frame="all" id="table_ip_mode_type">
   <title>IPv4 and IPv6 mode arguments</title>
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="5.36*" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
    <thead>
     <row>
      <entry>Mode</entry>
      <entry>Description</entry>
     </row>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
     <row>
      <entry>DISABLE[D]</entry>
      <entry>The specific IP transport is disabled and remains passive. IP addresses of the
       transport type will not be used and discovery of this transport will be inactive.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry>ENABLE[D]</entry>
      <entry>The specific IP transport is enabled, but is not prioritized.  This means that
       the transport will function and will announce its source addresses, but it will only be
       used if the other transport has no means of reaching a certain destination.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry>PREFER[RED]</entry>
      <entry>The specific IP transport is enabled and preferred.</entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </table>
  <note>If both IPv4 and IPv6 have priority, then IPv4 will still be used.</note>
  <note>Although described in uppercase in the mode table, alternatively all lower-case modes can be
   used as well.</note>
  <p>The combination of mode settings will, in the current implementation, enable only one
   discovery protocol.  If IPv6 is enabled in cooperation with IPv4, discovery will be done over
   IPv4, even though IPv6 might be preferred.  Only if IPv4 is disabled will Discovery be performed
   over IPv6.  The rationale here is that Discovery over IPv4 is clearly defined in the DDS
   specification as the default Discovery protocol.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
