<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_bzk_b4v_sf">
 <title>IPv4 Multicast configuration parameters</title>
 <shortdesc></shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <table frame="all" id="table_qhw_2qv_sf">
   <title>Multicast configuration parameters</title>
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="4.87*" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
    <thead>
     <row>
      <entry>DDS configuration parameter</entry>
      <entry>Description</entry>
     </row>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
     <row>
      <entry>IP_MCAST_TTL</entry>
      <entry>Can be used to change the default Time-To-Live value for multicast datagrams. If not
       specified, this TTL value is set to 1. Possible values: 1..255.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry>IP_MCAST_SRC</entry>
      <entry>Specifies the IP addresses of the interfaces that may be used as a source interface for
       Multicast IP packets.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry>IP_MCAST_DEST</entry>
      <entry>Specifies the IP address of the interface that must be used in order to route Multicast
       IP packets. This variable must be set in cases when there is no default gateway defined and
       there is no valid Multicast route present in the system. If set, it strictly overrides any
       automatic Multicast forwarding mechanisms that are present in the system, and can thus be
       used to restrict DDS access to other interfaces. It is allowed to specify the loopback
       address (e.g. 127.0.0.1) as a crude way of preventing Technicolor DDS from reaching other
       nodes outside the own node.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry>IP_NO_MCAST</entry>
      <entry>This environment variable can be set to indicate which DDS peers do not accept
       Multicast traffic or on which networks it is not wise to use Multicast traffic (such as
       wireless networks). The argument can be a combination of IP address and IP network
       specifications similar to the specification that is used in <b>TDDS_IP_ADDRESS</b> and
        <b>TDDS_IP_NETWORK </b>(see further).</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry>IPV6_MCAST_HOPS</entry>
      <entry>Specifies the maximum number of hops for outgoing IPv6 multicast packets. It should be
       set to a value between 0 and 255.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry>IPV6_MCAST_INTF</entry>
      <entry>This option can be used to set the default outgoing interface for IPv6 multicast
       packets. Contrary to the <b>TDDS_IP_MCAST_DEST</b> environment variable, the argument should
       be a valid interface name (such as lo or eth0).</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry>IPV6_GROUP</entry>
      <entry>This variable should be used in case the default IPv6 Discovery multicast address
       (FF03::80) is not available. It should be set as a normal IPv6 address specification.</entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </table>
  <p><b>Examples</b>:</p>
  <p><b>export TDDS_IP_MCAST_TTL=2</b>
  </p>
  <p>Sets the Time-To-Live value for IPv4 Multicast datagrams to 2, so Multicast IP packets will be
   able to be routed 1 node further from the own node, but not further. </p>
  <p><b>export TDDS_IP_MCAST_DEST=10.0.0.64</b></p>
  <p>Set the Multicast route to the IP interface on which the address 10.0.0.64 is present,
   disregarding default IP Multicast routes. Note that this interface must be present for Multicast
   routing to be possible.</p>
  <p><b>export TDDS_IP_NO_MCAST=10.0.0.32+31;144.11.0.12</b></p>
  <p>Technicolor DDS will not send Multicast datagrams to DDS peers in the range
   10.0.0.32..10.0.0.63, nor to a DDS peer located on 144.11.0.12.</p>
  <p>The mechanism that Technicolor DDS uses to send data to multiple peers depends on this
   environment variable. If a datagram must be sent to a group of DDS peers with at least one peer
   in the given range, Technicolor DDS will choose to use specific Unicast packets to each
   individual destination within the group, even to those that do allow Multicast. If none of the
   destinations is mentioned in the variable, multicast will still be used.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
