<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_2f5_zps_sf">
 <title>Overview</title>
 <shortdesc/>
 <conbody>
  <p>The purpose of this document is to make the user familiar with working with the Technicolor DDS
   Middleware implementation.</p>
  <p>Technicolor DDS provides a Middleware approach that minimizes the memory footprint of
   DDS-applications, without sacrificing their speeds, in order to make the DDS Publish/Subscribe
   methodology usable on low-memory, low-performance embedded devices, all this both over LAN and
   WAN and fully secure.</p>
  <p>The next chapters will give a small introduction in the Middleware concept and how the
   Technicolor DDS can make it easier for application writers to use DDS.</p>
  <p>The Technicolor DDS Data Type system will be described in detail, since this is one of the most
   important changes in Technicolor DDS compared to other DDS implementations.</p>
  <p>The document will also give some guidelines to application writers which kind of DDS data
   eventing approaches are available, and which is more appropriate in what situation, e.g. using
   either Listener functions, or using a WaitSet-based approach.</p>
  <p>A number of environment variables are available in Technicolor DDS that can be used to
   influence the usage of Multicast and of Interface IP addresses.  These environment variables will
   also be discussed.</p>
  <p>A drastic per-node DDS memory reduction is possible using the Technicolor Central Discovery
   Daemon.</p>
  <p>For a good look into how applications are actually using their DDS resources, the Technicolor
   DDS implementation can provide lots of ways to examine this in detail.  Some of those ways are by
   default compiled out in order to minimize the code size, but it is quite easy to enable more
   exhaustive debugging features.  The available compilation options will be explained in
   detail.</p>
  <p>We  will also explain how to optimise memory usage even more using the Technicolor DDS memory
   pool system.</p>
  <p>A number of DDS example programs are provided which are quite useful on their own, such as the
   Shapes demo program, and the Bandwidth and Latency test programs.  These will also be
   explained.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
