<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="w2f0sy1wrorl" xml:lang="en-US">
 <title>IPv4 and IPv6 address scopes</title>
 <shortdesc></shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <table frame="all" id="table_addr_scope">
   <title>Address Scope parameters</title>
   <tgroup cols="2">
     <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
     <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.69*" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
     <thead>
      <row>
       <entry>Parameter name</entry>
       <entry>Description</entry>
      </row>
     </thead>
     <tbody>
      <row>
       <entry>IP_SCOPE</entry>
       <entry>May be used to limit the scope of IPv4 addresses that will be used as source addresses
        and that will be announced to peer participants. If not specified, all source addresses with
        Link, Site, Organisation and Global scope will be used (see further).
        A valid scope expression should be specified as explained below.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>IPV6_SCOPE</entry>
       <entry>Specifies the scope of IPv6 addresses that will be used as source addresses and that
        will be announced to peer participants.  If not specified all source addresses with Site,
        Organisation and Global scope will be used.
        A valid scope expression should be used, as explained below.</entry>
      </row>
     </tbody>
    </tgroup>
  </table>
  <p>A scope expression has the form of: <i>&lt;ScopeNumber></i>-<i>&lt;ScopeNumber></i>, where
    <i>&lt;ScopeNumber></i> is a decimal number from 0 to 4, with the following significance of each
   number:</p>
   <table frame="all" id="table_scope_num">
    <title>Address scope numbers</title>
    <tgroup cols="3">
     <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
     <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.77*" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
     <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="8.92*" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
     <thead>
      <row>
       <entry>Number</entry>
       <entry>Scope</entry>
       <entry>Description</entry>
      </row>
     </thead>
     <tbody>
      <row>
       <entry><b>0</b></entry>
       <entry>Node</entry>
       <entry>Node-local addresses are addresses that should never be used outside of a
        a node as a source address (the loopback address).</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><b>1</b></entry>
       <entry>Link</entry>
       <entry>Link-local addresses are typically generated by a system.  They should not be used
        outside the link on which they were defined.  On IPv4: auto-ip addresses.  On IPv6: the
        automatically generated link addresses.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><b>2</b></entry>
       <entry>Site</entry>
       <entry>Site-local addresses should not be used outside a site.  For IPv4, this includes the
       192.168/16 and the 10/24 address ranges.  For IPv6, the address scope is defined with the
       address.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><b>3</b></entry>
       <entry>Organisation</entry>
       <entry>Organisation-local addresses should not be used outside a specific organisation.  This
       is typically not known for IPv4 addresses, but can be specify with IPv6 addresses.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><b>4</b></entry>
       <entry>Global</entry>
       <entry>Global or Public addresses can always be reached from anywhere over the Internet.</entry>
      </row>
     </tbody>
    </tgroup>
   </table>
   <p>The scope expression thus makes it easy to restrict the scope of IPv4 or IPv6 addresses that
   may be used by Technicolor DDS.</p>
   <note>The expression only influences which local IPv4 (or IPv6) addresses will be announced to
   DDS peers and does not mean that addresses learned from other peers that are outside this scope
   will be ignored when received from peer DDS participants. It is not clear currently whether a
   mechanism for ignoring these remote addresses would be useful.</note>
 </conbody>
</concept>