<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
  <topic id="topic_hcx_5kv_r4">
    <title>TCP configuration parameters</title>
    <body>
      <p>The following parameters can be configured for RTPS over TCP:</p>
      <p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_oyj_1lv_r4">
          <title>TCP configuration parameters</title>
          <tgroup cols="4">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.0*"/>
            <colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="1.0*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Parameter name</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
                <entry>Type</entry>
                <entry>Default</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>TCP_MODE</entry>
                <entry>Specifies whether UDP is enabled</entry>
                <entry>Mode</entry>
                <entry>enabled</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>TCP_PORT</entry>
                <entry>TCP Server mode: server port.</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>TCP_SERVER</entry>
                <entry>TCP Client mode: server URL:port</entry>
                <entry>String</entry>
                <entry/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>TCP_SEC_PORT</entry>
                <entry>TLS/TCP Server mode: server port</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>TCP_SEC_SERVER</entry>
                <entry>TLS/TCP Client mode: server URL:port</entry>
                <entry>String</entry>
                <entry/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>TCP_PUBLIC</entry>
                <entry>Public TCP/IP address behind NAT-Firewall</entry>
                <entry>String (IPv4 address[':'port])</entry>
                <entry>If not defined, port is assumed to be 7400</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>TCP_PRIVATE</entry>
                <entry>Allow to connect to private IP addresses for TCP connectivity.</entry>
                <entry>Mode</entry>
                <entry>Disabled</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>TCP_PB</entry>
                <entry>RTPS Port base.</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry>7400</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>TCP_DG</entry>
                <entry>RTPS DomainId Gain.</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry>250</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>TCP_PG</entry>
                <entry>RTPS ParticipantId Gain.</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry>2</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>TCP_D0</entry>
                <entry>RTPS D0 parameter</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry>0</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>TCP_D1</entry>
                <entry>RTPS D1 parameter</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry>10</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>TCP_D2</entry>
                <entry>RTPS D2 parameter</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry>1</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>TCP_D3</entry>
                <entry>RTPS D3 parameter</entry>
                <entry>Number</entry>
                <entry>11</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p>
      <p>To enable plain TCP server mode on a DDS application, it is sufficient to set the server
        port on which the TCP server will listen:</p>
      <p><b>export TDDS_TCP_PORT=7400</b></p>
      <p>On the other DDS application that needs to communicate in TCP client mode to the first DDS
        application, you only need to set the server URL and port:</p>
      <p><b>export TDDS_TCP_SERVER=my-home.dynip.com:7400</b></p>
      <p>It might be necessary to configure the home gateway for port forwarding through the
        NAT-firewall, in order to enable reachability to the in-LAN TCP-server DDS application.</p>
      <p>An alternative scenario is connectivity to a public DDS TCP server from within a local LAN
        behind a NAT-firewall.</p>
      <p>In this case it would be sufficient to enable the server on the public DDS host, and just
        configure the local LAN DDS with the URL of the public DDS TCP server.  No port forwarding
        needs to be enabled in this case, since all TCP connections are setup from the client to the
        server.</p>
      <p>In the Qeo case, there is already support for a forwarder in a LAN, using the TCP mechanism
        to configure a TCP server on the forwarder, automatically punching a hole in the local
        NAT-firewall, and publishing the TCP URL on a location server somewhere in the cloud.</p>
      <p>This server can be a small always-on device, like a Raspberry Pi.  Qeo supports this.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
</dita>
