<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_hfc_f1v_sf">
 <title>Centralized Discovery Daemon</title>
 <shortdesc></shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>Ordinarily, DDS implementations learn all topics that are present in the DDS domains in which
   they are interested, even though they usually are only interested in a subset of the collective
   Topic data.</p>
  <p>This is done, by design, because it is not known initially which topics will be referenced in
   the future by applications.  It could be, for example, that Topics are discovered first, after
   which they might be referenced by local Readers or Writers.  A strategy that simply throws away
   Discovered data for which there is no local Topic yet, will not work at all.  The data that was
   thrown out will not come back automatically afterwards, just like that.</p>
  <p>The solution to this problem is a node-central Discovery manager, called the CDD component. The
   Centralized Discovery Daemon is a stand-alone (daemonized) program that allows to optimize this
   per-node Discovery data so that discovered data does not need to be kept in components that are
   not interested in this data.</p>
  <p>The CDD, when active, allows to communicate the state of Discovery data to other Technicolor
   DDS components.  This way, those DDS components will be informed of matching discovery data the
   moment they subscribe to Topics and there are already 'early joiners' for this topic.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
